.Dd September 2, 2017
.Dt ASTROUNIT 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm astro_suite_create astro_suite_destroy astro_suite_add_test astro_suite_run
assert_str_eq assert_int_eq assert astro_test_args astro_suite_setup astro_suite_teardown
.Nd Create and run tests for C programs
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libastrounit
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In astrounit.h
.Ft struct astro_suite
.Fo *astro_suite_create
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo astro_suite_destroy
.Fa "astro_suite *suite"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo astro_suite_add_test
.Fa "struct astro_suite *suite" "astro_ret_t (*test)(void*)" "void *args"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo astro_suite_run
.Fa "struct astro_suite *suite"
.Fc
.Fo assert_str_eq
.Fa "const char *str1" "const char *str2" "const char *failure_message"
.Fc
.Fo assert_int_eq
.Fa "int num1" "int num2" "const char *failure_message"
.Fc
.Ft type
.Fo assert
.Fa "int test" "const char *failure_message"
.Fc
.Fo astro_test_args
.Fa "type"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo astro_suite_setup
.Fa "struct astro_suite *suite" "void (*setup)(void*)" "void *args"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo astro_suite_teardown
.Fa "struct astro_suite *suite" "void (*teardown)(void*)"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Astrounit is a simple C testing library. To create a test, a test suite must
be created and tests added to it. Tests themselves are just functions, but
they are created using a special syntax:
.Qq ASTRO_TEST_BEGIN(test_name)
where
.Qq test_name
is the name of the test. The test must then have an opening brace {, followed
by the test code, then a closing brace }. The test must then be finished with
.Qq ASTRO_TEST_END
.Pp
The
.Fn astro_test_args
macro is used to get the arguments to a test function in a safe way. It is to
be passed the type to which to case the argument void pointer.
.Pp
The
.Fn astro_suite_setup
function allows you to add a setup function that will run before each test. It
can take a single argument that is a void pointer so that it can be cast to
any pointer that you might need. The
.Fn astro_suite_teardown
function runs a teardown function after every test and will use the same
argument as was passed to the setup function.
.Sh EXAMPLE
This is a simple example of a test. It will exit with a failure status if the
test fails and a success status if it passes.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
#include <astrounit.h>
#include <stdlib.h>

ASTRO_TEST_BEGIN(simple_test)
{
	char str1[] = "test";
	char str2[] = "test";
	int *num_ptr = astro_test_args(int*);
	int num = *num_ptr;

	assert_str_eq(str1, str2, "Strings not equal");
	assert_int_eq(123, num, "Numbers not equal");
}
ASTRO_TEST_END

int main(void)
{
	int num_failures = 0;
	struct astro_suite *suite = astro_suite_create();
	int arg = 123;
	astro_suite_add_test(suite, simple_test, &arg);
	num_failures = astro_suite_run_tests(suite);
	astro_suite_destroy(suite);
	return (num_failures == 0 : EXIT_SUCCESS : EXIT_FAILURE);
}
.Ed
